okay so I just got home from work I know
it is no longer Halloween but you can
tell well if you look carefully there's
something unusual but her parents cuz
she just got off work
yeah last week I taught a lesson about
Halloween and the students didn't
celebrate it at all around here so I
think they were kind of pumped up to do
something for it so this week is when we
celebrated Halloween so yeah it was it
was awesome it's so much fun they were
throwing around screaming popping
balloons and it was it was great
so um some of them actually did have
masks I wasn't expecting that but so
yeah
somebody had left a comment on one of
your videos asking about my experience
moving to China and becoming an ESL
teacher right so I was just thinking I'm
looking down because I I've made notes
on my phone which I did prep for this
video what stuff don't ever suppose a
hundred percent spontaneous this is only
80 percent spontaneous yeah well you
know I kind of have trouble with being
spontaneous so a little a little bit of
background though so you know your
decision to come to China and be a
teacher itself was spontaneous she fell
in love with me she came over here and I
said look I can set you up with a job as
a teacher now if we're being all the way
real that is fundamentally just because
you speak English as a first language
and you're in a part of China where
teachers are really really scarce if
you're watching this in 2017 the next
two years 2018 2019 teachers are going
to be scarce in almost all of China
there have been legal changes and
bureaucratic changes and how they can
recruit and employ and do paperwork for
foreign teachers so there's a crisis
going on right now in higher education
in China and lower in all kinds
education because they really took for
granted that they'd be able to get
foreigners to come here and teach and
it's basically impossible now it's
impossible I'll just say this briefly
though our video but like it's possible
it's impossible partly for those reasons
of bureaucracy paperwork
visas the regulation changing but it's
also economically today again so I was
talking to her boss today
and she was again inviting me to stay
longer and
set me up with work and stay as a
teacher and he said to her look that
there's no way to justify it even if you
wanted to teach English in order to
learn Chinese you do it in Taiwan for
all these reasons you know like
everything including your ability to
have a cellphone your ability to have a
driver's license or you know like all
kinds of technical things like that but
fundamentally the money in the economic
situation it becomes impossible to
justify teach English in China and
mainland China and among the only
exceptions you know when I was in
couldn't make I met there's a certain
stereotype but these were tired white
guys guys who were like 63 to 65 doing
the English teaching at that and their
lives and they have no academic
background or whatever related to
teaching and they're not career teachers
but they're this kind of sunset teacher
so and you know obviously the at the
opposite extreme you get people who are
still in university or just finished
their BA who are who are here to teach
English but really because they're
learning Chinese Bailey so really
spontaneously she came over for her
first experience with teaching and you
didn't have a hell of a lot of
experience with kids in general and yeah
so now you know now we're gonna talk
about it I mean yeah in the space of six
months yeah so when I first came over
and visited eyes'll I was offered like
three different jobs yeah and yeah
that's right so I forgot about that
that's right but no as soon as you were
here ya have any angry isn't very
profitable in the United States and
technically it's not really profitable
here but it is more in demand here
because people want people who can speak
English fluently so I did interview for
a position that was just I felt would be
too many hours and I think eyes'll did
make a video about that job posting oh
well really really that would have been
university level teaching so she was
offered a job teaching University aged
students yeah but the job that I took
was with a fellow professor who teaches
with so a university professor who set
up a small private school or busi van if
you know the industry terms as a
for-profit enterprise on the side yep
yep so that's just teaching children so
okay yeah so the reason why I started
writing these notes and
was you know I had had that comment on
my mind but also I am now tutoring as a
she's I think she's probably like 21 or
something but she she has graduated from
college and she's hoping to go to
graduate school right for English so she
has to take this this test an English
proficiency test so I'm tutoring her for
this test and the other day she was
expressing like she was lamenting how
difficult it is for her and how she
doesn't think she's gonna do well on the
test and she's thinking maybe she'll
just forget about the graduate degree
altogether so you know I I was trying to
encourage her like you know this this is
good for your career to to be learning
English if this is what you want to be
doing and generally in China it's it's a
beneficial to know English yeah so um
okay so what you got you making this
video having at the contrasting
experience of teaching small children
and now also dealing with this one
university age student in what I want a
special class yes yeah so she asked me
if I had hesitated with coming to China
and becoming a teacher for this you know
yes all teaching um I didn't you know I
couldn't explain the full situation to
her cuz it's like it would be x-rated
but I said you know there was some
hesitation in the very beginning at very
beginning but it wasn't about teaching
you know yesthank you know about like
making this huge move well I was will
reassure your parents that life in China
was not really so different from life in
the United States yeah and and by the
way we just stopped here real quick a
lot of people will be disappointed with
that I knew a girl and my whole life
would be different if I'd if I pursued a
relation with her I knew a girl who was
half Chinese in Canada this is way back
in the day you know and I remember her
saying to me she's not to UM person
sorry but obviously ethnically she was
half white half Chinese and when she
came to China the big disappointment was
it was not that different from Canada
like fundamentally you know the the
buildings the streets the fire hydrants
like in so many ways life is the same as
in Canada so that that just mentioned
offhand but in a lot of ways that's what
I was kind of reassuring your parents
show them some photographs of where I
live it's like no I mean day-to-day you
know that's it's really in so many ways
it's not that different from the life
you dad might have noticed yeah so you
know I said to her ultimately my
decision was an emotional one so I can't
really compare it I can't say that that
would work in her situation because for
me it wasn't a motorable decision to
move here and you know first of all to
come at you and then right right so it's
it's a totally different decision for
her it's a career decision it's
something that you should think about
rationally and of course I know there
are emotions that are going to be
wrapped up in her decision but you have
after the short-term emotional decision
now we have a ton of more long-term
decisions to get informed by it like you
know have the option to learn Chinese
over the next year or next five years or
whatever you know whatever you do you
know it's not a rush you know but for
the rest of your life if you want to you
learn Chinese and due to circumstances
in our lives if you want to you can
learn French if you want to you could
learn German if we could learn Spanish
we don't really have a reason to learn
Spanish the moment but I'm just
mentioning you know it does open up
doors for you that you will now consider
in a more cerebral analytical way with
reference to your career so the fact
that the short term decision is
emotional doesn't yeah that that's all
it's you know I probably wouldn't I
wouldn't have come over to China had I
not known so I said for me it's an
emotional decision so but um you know
apart from coming here and falling in
love with you it has been a really
meaningful experience for me really
meaningful life experience um so
generally an interesting point for me is
that I had I hadn't had much interaction
with people who didn't who weren't
native English speakers so um I've had
some embarrassing misunderstandings with
people limiting when I talk to them um
but it's been good for me overall to
gain this skill of communicating with
people who for whom English isn't their
first language you just generally I
think that's a good communication skill
to have yeah a good life skill to have
and also even talking to people who with
whom English is their first language
like in a way um to avoid
misunderstandings
maybe I can poke in some some little
things your eyes go but you don't I
think one of the ways in which we both
break the stereotype of English teachers
here I don't think anyone's really
interrogated you about this I get it all
the time a lot of Chinese people will
take you side and ask you like don't you
worship Chinese culture aren't you here
because you love Chinese culture and
what they mean by Chinese culture is
interesting like sometimes that's kind
of a code for something political sends
a code for like they really mean like
high literature or opera like Chinese
opera like they might have something in
particular in mind and but every single
time I get asked that I tell people like
no I you know I'm not an enthusiast
about Chinese literature or Chinese
opera you know like no I don't worship
Chinese culture you know I'm here for
this this and this reason which would be
a separate video but you know I think
it's interesting both of us were in this
you know frontier region of China this
part of China basically only became a
part of this only became party on around
1911 it's a bit of a secret you know it
says you know this is a death nicly
diverse lingual a diverse area on the
edge of Yunnan and Myanmar beautiful
great place to live blah blah blah but
it is interesting we took on the
challenge of being here and we're not
the stereotype that Chinese people
themselves are looking for because a lot
of the time that's what they're looking
for is the kind of white follower though
it's hard to describe sorry I mean you
know there are slang terms for this with
white people who worship Japanese
culture like you know otaku and this
kind of thing you know but they're I
don't really know any any simple slang
term with that for white people who for
whatever reason are drawn to or
fascinated with and want to integrate
into or marry into you know Chinese
culture but that ain't us
and that we're here for such a totally
different set of reasons but yeah it's
cool it's cool for you to say it's been
it's been life-changing
but it's life changing in a very
different way then there might be the
stereotype that even other Chinese
people would expect ya know because
during the color college graduate right
recently have started tutoring and she's
like we were talking about history like
history was the subject that we were
talking about I was you know I'm I'm
just now learning about Chinese history
I really don't know very much about it
and I say
you know my dad knows a lot more about
it and she was like oh yeah well he must
piece a university professor like oh
yeah I kind of did encounter like that
she would have to expected you to be
like really more in Chinese culture them
well where and just really brief thing
they assume that like going to an
American high school you'd learn about
the history of China and most people
learn nothing yeah most Americans don't
even know which side China was on in
World War two like they don't even know
that and like so me my first university
degree is political science and I do
sometimes describe myself as a political
science major sometimes as an Asian
Studies major because I mean I've got a
second degree one but yeah there is
definitely because they feel China is
the center of the world if you know the
actual symbols John Wall pretty much
means the land yeah see you know that
that's kind of code in Canada but yeah
they have much higher expectations than
most English teachers to be able to live
up to that way yeah yeah so oh yeah
another general note is that I wouldn't
have learned Chinese I really doubt it
would have learned Chinese ever had I
not come up here and yeah becoming ESL
teacher here and as you just said a
couple minutes ago that it's I can be a
lifelong like sure for me like sure and
I I just want to say I never pressure
I've never said to her like if you fall
in love with me you have to learn
Chinese which oh and a lot of
relationships are like that but you
don't know but it is true that you you
said like you know I yeah I think you
would regret it if you lived here and
you didn't learn some Chinese to know
what you're missing that's right
that's right that's the criteria and I
uses are learning enough to know what
you're missing yeah because if you
choose not to learn Chinese after you
you leave here I can respect that
decision but you got to know enough to
know what you decide
yeah and it's true I feel like I I could
have spent more time learning Chinese
sure I told by you know in the future
spend more time learning Chinese well in
me to a real briefly you know but I mean
since she came in my top priority has
been her not learning Chinese you know
before that I had this period of seven
months we're learning Chinese seven or
eight or nine months even
we're learning Chinese was my main
priority and then she became a member
and that's fine I think she's gonna be
with me for the rest of my life whether
or not the Chinese language is gonna be
with me for the
my life will rolls gonna actually more
open to speculation yeah yeah yeah oh
yeah and all just the other part of that
is I had learned German and in high
school because it was necessarily like
it was a requirement to learn some
language and I had German background
yeah it's some family in Germany so um
but yeah this is something I was doing
out of not duty but out of just interest
and yeah so okay all right so on to
being a teacher being a teacher doesn't
really come naturally to me no you you
recently comment done this conference it
on this like you know there are some
things that generally like I'm good at
but teaching is not really one of them
oh yeah I just mentioned really brief of
what what it is she's alluding to her
what I'm alluding to when I say that you
know I really mean the kind of Master of
Ceremonies role the teacher where you
stand on the front you keep the classes
attention and I again I wouldn't say
it's about being entertaining because I
don't see the role of a teacher as being
entertaining your students but really
just how you project your voice how you
work the room it's it's in some ways
it's similar to stand-up comedy without
jokes stand-up comedy without punchlines
but how you how do you do that yeah
before I came to Asia to teach English
when I was still in Canada but I knew I
would I by the way I'm not a career
English teacher sorry this is the first
video ever seen my channel I've taught
English in between other jobs and for
other reasons like I was in Cambodia
trying to do humanitarian work and in
between jobs I taught English real well
stuff like that but the English GG is my
micro but nevertheless what I knew I was
gonna move to Asia and I knew that
teaching English would be part of my
life in Asia there was a short-lived
kind of documentary TV show this is
before reality TV was a documentary and
it was something was I think was just
called Taiwan English teachers it was
some of that and I remember one of the
characters he just seemed like such a
pathetic drunk he just seemed like why
would anyone want this guy's name he
seems so bored worthless and then the
last episode I only sucka blows it was I
did see the last episode they actually
showed him waking up hungover
late getting his act together dragging
his ass to school to teach news teaching
children but then when he stands in
front of the kids
he's great you know he's kind of a
natural just in that sense I'm not
saying he's great at teaching grammar or
that was a he's great at
purpose of actually getting kids to
practice speak English but you can see
he really had that thing I mean it's
like Krusty the Klown in the Simpsons he
comes onstage says hey kids and he is
really good at naturally kind of holding
the class's attention yeah yeah which I
think you are I think you're really good
at that
like when it yeah he was doing my job
basically for me before I moved over
here like it was in America for two
months in US and so I well and I did in
a transitional way I did it to sort of
train her and bring her in I see we're
going to talk about a billion yeah you
don't think there's a line from Rick and
Morty which is a TV comedy show but in
Rick says at one point he says well I
can do anything but only if I want to
like I'm oh if I'm motivated to for me a
lot of the challenges English teaching
is is you know I write lessons and I
develop curriculum intentionally that I
am interested in that I really feel
there's value in so I'm motivated but if
I if I think what I'm teaching is crap
you know so I'm not the best teacher
that way you know what I mean and I
don't so yeah I mean a little bit like
Rick from working more you know you know
I have a my voice is not very loud yeah
it's just you know something that
innately you can't change yeah we she
doesn't she and here this was a true in
China this was also true in Laos when I
taught English in Laos it's also true
that I do diglossia I'm speaking in both
languages be I'm switching back for
three English Chinese and even though my
lotion I never received a single lesson
in lotion I was completely self-taught
but I was doing that allow also so
that's also very different from just
teaching in English which is what she
does she's an English teacher who only
speaks English not Chinese so yeah I
don't think I would have had like if I
would have gone to Asia because it's
something I could have done with an
English degree if I would have decided
to move to Asia and become an ESL
teacher somewhere else other than here
in mantra yeah I would not have had as
good of an experience as I had one
because of that because you were able to
help me transition into becoming an
English teacher here yeah
I was able to observe you teaching
lessons and then when I started teaching
like you watched a couple right you were
there so you were able to give me some
feedback well we did we did some lessons
where I taught a hundred percent and she
just sat there and watched and did
nothing
we did some that were hybrid where we
were both teaching or were teaching
cooperatively she played one role but
you know some extent you know maybe she
has read a script and I did other you
know interaction with students and then
we did a couple classes where she was
for the most part teaching maybe I was
just helping to explain some things in
Chinese yeah so yeah I think that was a
really good way for me to transition
into teaching because I think in other
places I wouldn't have had somebody to
help me train I would just be thrown
into it and the person who just started
working for grace he doesn't have that
transition so she just hired someone who
weren't yeah you did have experience
teaching but only classes of like five
or six students for these classes and
you get experience in Russia I take it
on it yeah right
what and also just say generally you
know my mo there was I tried to give her
the education and the preparation that I
think everyone in the business knows new
teachers should have but nobody forgets
you mean it's like oh yeah well in
theory teachers should go through a
gradual process of good and it never
happens so I just say I think I did kind
of the obvious thing that most most
people if you have experience in the
industry you know this is what you ought
to do but nobody does and you know but I
just mentioned also you were not in a
corporate setting I mean it wasn't like
you had a boss trying to get the most
money out of you it's also a big big
difference Yeah right yeah so now now I
am teaching with the translators so that
is different like just fundamentally the
the classes are quite different but okay
um I was gonna say something else going
on okay I remember anyway alright so I
do have some some background in
Performing Arts I was in choir and I did
play violin in the orchestra in high
school and okay yeah whatever it was
mostly high school I did play some solos
for competitions some cymbal
so those but other than that I really
don't have experience performing in
front of an audience and I know you know
you know it's an audience of children
but for me that that is yep I don't want
to say it's I don't get stage fright
it's just stressful for me like cuz it
doesn't come naturally to me and trying
to keep the attention of kids when I you
see you were at a town when this
happened when I first started teaching
here at the university it really brought
back memories of the theater and I'm
doing stand-up comedy and doing doing
comedy as an actor and stuff because
this is the actual setup of how the
desks are how the students are sitting
and sometimes I stand behind the podium
and sometimes I walk down into the crowd
and speak to them sometimes you speak to
people one-on-one it's like a stand-up
comedians and sometimes you're
addressing kind of everyone anyone it's
just really brought back members from
when I was like 16 years old at the
theater so yeah there's definitely
theatricality to it even when you're
doing a completely dry you know you're
not acting out scenes or anything yeah
yeah right but but also you know for the
kids you know there are scenes that I
should be acting out and that was a new
experience for me because I hadn't ever
been in theatre and you sing some songs
and things like yeah but just you know
when I first was doing the story about
Hans and the gold you know like you
actually like wrote for me like mime you
know putting the gold on his back and
like carrying it and riding a horse and
like just you know I hadn't had that
experience in the vessel right you know
I'm a consist so when she first started
teaching I was really accustomed to
while talking to the class like while
keeping eye contact drawing a picture on
the board
that illustrates what I'm talking about
while holding on a cognitive while
keeping their attention doing mimetic
motions miming out what the verb is what
it isn't trying to get across so that
that comes to me very easily and you're
really good at drawing
okay I think he's good she cheats you
got me out whatever I'm good enough but
yeah I could spontaneously draw and
against relating to nouns and verbs or
the situation you're trying to convey
but that is that is I mean at this at
this level at all levels even with
university students that's you know
that's an important set of skills but
yeah well yeah it's just really tough
for me to draw it all so like yeah I
can't simultaneously talk to the class
and it's it's even if you're just asking
them you know like if you guys did
something really simply do you know what
this is while you're drawing you know
but you are you know you're not looking
at the board you're still looking at
them you're still involving them you
know trying trying to keep them engaged
try to keep them learning because again
what I do I don't try to be entertaining
I really don't I don't try to make my
students happy you know I ultimately you
know I've prepared a lesson that I feel
is really worth conveying so just to
give a really true example because we
both did these lessons I did a series of
lessons on the Inuit so a kask Eskimo is
the furthest north eat one candidate how
they live and how they survive how they
build a house out of snow and ice and
this kind of thing you know and to me
like I really think that's worth
conveying to those to those kids I think
it's worth conveying you know this is
really meaningful so I'm motivated I'm
engaged but then also remember what are
they learning they're learning cut cut
ice how do they cut I drag like you know
the law this is verb needed learning the
differences between the different verbs
what is you need to push something or to
drag something and all of that's gonna
be very mimetic it's gonna be acting
things that would and so on so yeah when
you came in I think that was that was
probably exactly the transition you
participate in or those a lot of those
lessons so yeah and I also think it has
to do with like you're more comfortable
being the center of attention
yeah yeah but again so look I'm now 39
and she's now 24 you know I don't know I
don't know how different I would have
been at 24 or Foe doing this you know so
I really but you know I started
University in 1997 and I first taught
English no I first starting koshary at
the end of university right so you know
yeah so I did go I did go through some
of us of yours that's true yeah but yeah
so partly it is just that were different
people but partly yeah I have a huge
amount of experience with lit with
language learning and then a smaller
amount of experience within that with
language teaching that most of my
professional jobs have been in an office
setting and like generally talking to
people as little as possible to get the
job done and often like that was that
was beneficial for the job to not talk
to the clients you know I worked for a
psychologist and I wasn't supposed to I
just wanted them to fill out the
paperwork I wasn't supposed to talk to
them for for 20 minutes or whatever so
yeah you know I this this is just to say
that in the past I didn't really can't
experience socializing or being somebody
who is outgoing now as a teacher I'm not
saying you have to be like a socialite
but um you have to be more outgoing and
more approachable than sitting in an
office silently so um you know I think
that has been a good experience for me I
I think like to be more outgoing and
more open to all so yeah I had never
worked with children before not even
babysitting kids so this has been like a
pretty big change for me but I I think
it's great like today today when we had
this Halloween party was like wow like
this is so much this is so great like to
see kids having fun of course you know
most classes are not like it's fun is it
most tonight but you know it is good to
see them like actually seeming to learn
the words and when you actually teach
them and they seem to be understanding
it it's it's a really it's a feeling
that is you know you can cherish it
I'd say also you see that a lot this one
stood here working with one on one you
actually get to see her improve week by
week here without getting into a big
thing the students are fundamentally
kind of overworked and rundown they're
just in the class or so many hours to
begin with so even the best students I
find the amount they learned in the
course of say two months is shockingly
slow you know if I check with the module
review us in two weeks later do you
remember there was been drag and push
got it you know I'm like they kept that
they kept ice there you know but Wow
you know it's a remarkable little memory
retention that way yeah but no I'd say
it is positive motivating one you can
see the students learn but a lot of the
time you better have other sources of
awesome fish because you will not be
able to see the blur yeah oh yeah just
the range of Ages of students here too
that I teach is like from you know I've
taught students that are six years old
up to students who are like 14 years old
and also like with lesson planning it's
it's important like you've been you've
taught me like really you should be
sympathetic to your audience and be
thinking about how they would react and
how they would better learn like when I
first started lesson planning I'd
started making things that were
interesting to me and maybe directly
towards somebody who was more probably
more college-age or like a high school
age and I went yeah really needed to
think about it differently and focus my
attention on like how the kids will
react yeah it's it's a really good
example I have this I have this
catchphrase a of the time which is that
you know sympathy is especially
important as an analytical tool but it
is a weird thing we just have to think
through from the students perspective
which parts of this are difficult and
what you're easy and what you know how
are they going to perceive this there's
a lot there's a lot that goes into it no
split second because once you're used to
doing it you don't even realize you're
doing I remember she was designing a
lesson about the planets in the solar
system and from my perspective I was
just a hundred eighty degrees different
from her so it was like no you know to a
child this isn't what's interesting this
is and you know if the point is to teach
them these words then it can't also be
to teach these words we just it's just
interesting but yeah there's definitely
an art to curriculum generation and this
year both of us we 100% generated all
new curriculum we didn't use anything
from pre-existing books or any
pre-existing source and I didn't use
anything from any prior
year I think I did one lesson one that
was reusing something I wrote when I was
in Laos it was it was on the use of
articles on correct use of you know the
Dan and so on once but otherwise
everything I've done has been a hundred
percent fresh so we both got a lot of
experience even though I already deficit
experienced I got more experience
creating new curriculum starting with a
blank sheet of paper and thinking okay
what am I gonna accomplish in these 40
minutes these students right yeah and in
the same way like you've helped me
transition into that because I had no
experience with it I think you it's
funny cuz we did a whole separate video
about university level education book
review talk it's called academically
adrift but we have it we have seven
video recently talking about University
vision it's funny too because what
you're doing as a teacher I think
properly understanding what it means to
be a teacher is totally incompatible
with being an academic presenting a
paper at a conference because that is as
you say it's this is me presenting
what's interesting to me and be explain
you why it's so important to be know the
point is to start from this kind of
sympathetic understanding of what the
students need to know or need to learn
to need to practice and how they're
gonna perceive it it to work work with
that perception which is which by the
way is totally different here in China
than it would be if you're working with
Mexican students or Brazilian students
what they can and can't do is totally I
assume that's a topic for another video
but that that really is pretty deep just
how limited they are in apprehending the
language and the lesson you have you do
have to think through you know what yeah
for example every words that they won't
know it was like with one word they
don't understand it right right well and
like that's why is it like even we've
charted with the Inuit I'm not gonna
teach you some kind of etiology about
the Inuit you know it's like okay we're
gonna learn cut we're gonna learn drag
we'd only differently drag and push
we're gonna the idea of building a house
out of ice and then it's like even that
okay so the structure of the sentence
built out of that was like one of the
main points of the lesson was going on
the board X is made out of why X is
built out of y
that sentence patter and so on and if
you don't if you don't do it
step-by-step then what you're doing is
it's just as gobbledygook yeah so but
you are thinking that way to me it's to
me it is really easy and I guess I'm
good at that because I spent so much
time studying languages in the Didact
Loesch and Cambodia and poly Korea but
all this experience as a student I guess
or maybe I'm just weird but yeah but
that that's definitely an invisible an
invisible skill of a language teacher
that you will never get from getting a
PhD in linguistics it has nothing to do
with having an academic background or
presenting papers that make it in the
conference I think it's good for my
personal development overall to see what
topics and what mode of teaching will
engage the different age groups so you
know working with kids who are really
young I think it's important to play
like songs and games but older students
even if you do have something really
interesting and I this is a lesson that
I that I talked tonight I think was the
first time I really was like proud of my
lesson like I think I did well without
asking you for any help but still like
some of the students weren't engaged but
I just think like you know they're here
in a class so many hours I actually
asked I know class because I know the
sentence structure I was trying to teach
them was like I wish I you know I wish I
could do
yeah and I was like I bet you probably
wish that you weren't in class so many
hours at school so many hours so I was
like so when do you actually when are
you in class so they start at 7:30 and
they have a two-hour break at lunch but
then they said that they end at 10:00
p.m. I was like does because they're
signed up for some some classes or
program they can't attempt you and a lot
of the teachers are on that similarly
dehumanizing schedule yeah
yeah but it was good to see how like how
kids change throat I just mentioned many
English teachers in Asia
instead take this kind of punitive
attitude of like well they don't want to
learn yeah well there are students who
don't want there are students who were
100 percent don't want to be there don't
that is true but a lot of the time what
you're perceiving as the student not
wanted to learn as they've already been
learning since 7:30 a.m. and you're
seeing them in 8:30 p.m. and you know
you you you got to get real you got to
be able to think sympathetically but the
position they're in and maybe how you
would have felt at that age if you were
working those same hours and so on
because you know sure thing different
age groups like how do I teach them
things sure sure but I think you think
it is also I mean it's it's a
fundamental puzzle how do you teach
someone who doesn't want to learn you
know with my daughter we don't teach her
anything she doesn't we only teacher we
only do you think she's interested in
doing its you know so she's very happy
and positive all right
but yeah that's uh that Deb I think
that's a hurdle nobody gets over whether
at university level or preschool though
is that people who watch this YouTube
channel once since I've put on it
they've probably noticed that I'm not
great at speaking off-the-cuff it's
really good
you know I stumble on my words and
sometimes just speak slowly and she cuz
I'm trying to think you know gather my
thoughts before I say something or I'll
just say something that I'll listen back
to like why did I say that why did I say
it in that manner but anyway um
throughout my life I've really relied on
written language to communicate with
people even even when I like had
difficult arguments with my parents or
something like a lot of the time I would
like syn my room when I feel like okay
write out what's going on like write an
apology letter like you know I I don't
know that's just a way that I've often
communicated in my life so having to
speak about a subject without
preparation has been a new challenge for
me
and also teaching ESL has been a new
challenge for me because you know
students will ask random questions you
have to be able to speak off the cuff
and have something to say in response
that isn't just like I don't know you
know or like and say it in a way that
also the students would be able to
understand so yeah that I think it's
been a good experience for me I don't
know I don't know if I've improved you
know maybe maybe objectively the
audience can tell more than I can but I
you know I think I have gotten better in
truth yeah it's a real workout for those
improv skills and stations yeah so cool
yeah I think it's been it's taken me out
of my comfort zone being an ESL teacher
and I think I've been growing this
person great I think you know if anyone
watching this video was actually
addressed in teaching ocean in China or
all of Asia I guess I mean in the last
17 years between between the year 2000
and the year 2017 we've really seen I
think English teaching cease to be an
uncredentialed profession it's used to
become the last Wild West the last
frontier or somebody with no formal
education could be great at the job and
have a good career and earn a good
living that used to be true I mean like
as let's say 2005 to pick a year you
know that really used to be true I mean
I alluded to it briefly earlier because
the Chinese government has ratcheted up
the paperwork requirements of
bureaucratic requirements at one point
you're your boss here was offering to
employ you on paper as a secretary as an
administrative so that like the school
would be pretending they were employing
an American citizen as an administrator
because they couldn't get through the
paperwork to to employ you as a teacher
ridiculous now you know there are all
kinds of you know details that so you
know it's really a shame
from my perspective maybe someone else I
don't see anything positive but I really
don't I think is really important in
every society that you have fields real
fields real careers that people can try
and try to end succeed at but not
everyone's going to succeed without this
pile of credentials and it's funny
because just have
talk about it so much a lot of the
talents you need to be a good language
educator are not academic they're not
academic in nature I mean what you need
to know about grammar you could probably
pick up in two months like you know it's
probably not that deep
now I'm someone who really enjoys you
know I'm I'm a very enjoy talking about
grammar I enjoy thinking about whether
enjoyable grammar in an ancient Indian
language like poly or Sanskrit or Latin
or Greek or you know or English or you
know these these Asian languages have
studied or courier but I'm a very
unusual person that way but I can
recognize I recognize first of all I'm
not a perfect teacher I know there are
shortcomings but of the skills I have
what's important in being a teacher I'm
probably I'm not using that academic
research side of my brain at all and you
know there are these other properties of
being warm about being engaging over
being sympathetic yes also being
analytical being creative you know
there's a lot that goes into it and I
don't know I feel it's a shame that now
that window is closing fewer and fewer
people will be able to do what you did
which is try it first see if they like
it see if they're good at it before they
commit to it and instead we're gonna get
the the opposite scenario which is I
think what most American educators are
trapped in Canadian educators dredgen
well it's like no no no commit 9 years
of your life first to getting a
credential so you can do this job even
though it's a low-paying job first
commit 9 years of your life to this
educational getting these traditionally
you can't use for any other job or
career and then afterwards you'll be
trapped in it 1 up a choice that's
that's really rough that's really
terrible and you know in the past I was
able to say to people well give it a try
like you know if you do it for six
months what's the big deal you know you
know you could be a teacher for six
months there are a lot of other things
you shouldn't just try you know I mean
no it's not like we're talking about you
know you know racecar driving or
something it's not something dangerous
it's not something destructive just
saying you can have a lot of personal
growth but you know if fundamentally you
decide you don't like screaming at kids
or having kids screaming at you which is
part of the job you know you could have
that experience and make that decision
and now with with it becoming
professionalized and credential eyes and
so on
it's really like the worst of all worlds
if you're going to get those credentials
if you're gonna put in that many years
there are other careers for you that are
way more okay there's almost no way to
justify doing the job formally and most
of the justifications most of us we're
doing the job informally whether you do
an a try and see basis or you do it like
me I'm teaching as an educational
opportunity it's really for my own
education that I'm teaching so there's a
different balance of you know
opportunities and you know the
difference of opportunity says attach to
it from that perspective but yeah it's
it's a shame definitely back in the year
2001 that was almost like this gold rush
of anyone can buy an airplane ticket and
fly to Japan anyone can buy an airplane
ticket in fly to China Taiwan it said
Chris South Korea South Korea maybe more
than anywhere else and cannot just get a
job as English teacher but really have a
career really over time build up you
know a meaningful new life and a lot of
people did and a lot of people from
diverse you know some of them used to be
computer engineer or something some of
them had some totally different
background they were decisive with and I
think right now I think 2017 is really
the year that that game has ended and
we're now it's like no you're supposed
to have a certificate education and a
few years experience two years
experience in your home country and like
preferably a master's degree and so on
you know it cannot be justified don't do
it if that's the career path we're
talking about I'd say absolutely not not
for anyone like absolute no no matter
who you are the only way to justify that
is is if you open your own business and
then you don't need the credentials
anyway if you're the one who owns the
school if you're doing a private private
for-profit basis nice so yeah changing
world and the changing face face my
girlfriend yeah but in some ways it's
great to hear that from you babe it's
great to you that you feel you you got a
lot out of it
and you know I mean as with earlier I
said learning Chinese it's good to know
what you're missing I mean even if you
close the door on this if for you this
really decides for you that you don't
long-term teaching is not what you want
to do you take what you learn from this
and and then you move on really knowing
what it is you're missing